- [Instructor] Lambda is a compute service
from Amazon AWS that allows you
to run code called Lambda functions
without provisioning or managing virtual servers.
This runtime is scalable and can be multitenant
without you having to manage that aspect of the environment.
AWS Lambda functions offer a robust set of language support,
making this technology more open for many users.
AWS Lambda natively supports some
of the most popular languages used
in cloud native computing today,
including Go, Java, and Python,
that we'll look at in this course.
There's also native support
for some other very popular languages like Ruby,
C#, Node.js, and even PowerShell.
In addition, Lambda has a runtime API
that you can use for languages
that are not natively supported
to keep with the polyglot theme.
Now, one of the beauties of Lambda,
in my opinion, is the hooks
to the Lambda framework are simple.
There are no complex APIs to learn
or deal with for very simple,
or even more complex executions within the framework.
Lambda as a serverless technology
in the AWS ecosystem plays very nicely
with other AWS offerings.
Lambda can be used to process data
or binary files through simple triggers in AWS.
Changes in S3, RDS, or Dynamo, for instance,
can trigger a Lambda function to do some meaningful work.
Lambda can also be used to respond to web requests
through API Gateway or CloudFront,
acting as web applications or web services.
Data streams are a powerful option
in asynchronous processing through integrations
with SQS or Kinesis.
And of course, we wouldn't be talking about AWS
if we didn't mention IoT.
And IoT is another powerful integration point
with things like Alexa Skills,
or IoT, IoT events within AWS.
And that isn't it.
You can integrate Lambda
with other Lambda functions and various other AWS services.
Now AWS has provided many operational tools
around Lambda to make it a truly effective system
for application development.
Out of the box, the console itself provides base,
but rich monitoring of your Lambda executions.
You can also build customized dashboards
if your operational needs demand it.
Lambda comes with a testing framework, REI,
that can provide a way to test your serverless functions
without doing deployments.
And when it comes time to deploy,
Lambda provides many different paths,
some of which we will look at through this course,
including console, command line, and container deployments
if that fits your needs.
Now that we have seen what Lambda offers,
let's take a look at Serverless
and what it offers as a technology to developers.